 Golfer Tiger Woods, who was in hiding since the expose of the expose alleged infidelities, has finally broken Golfer Tiger Woods , who was in hiding since the expose of Tiger Woods alleged infidelities , silence on the whole affair by admitting, I was unfaithful, I had affairs, I cheated.  
After three months of silence, Tiger Woods has given a well crafted public apology for The disgraced golfer lies and illicit affairs to a small group of friends, colleagues and close associates at the TPC Sawgrass clubhouse in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida in a televised speech.  (Watch Video)
his has accepted that his mistake, by saying I am the only one to blame, I convinced myself I felt that I had worked hard, I deserve to enjoy all the temptation around me; I was entitled.  
The disgraced golfer has put to rest speculations about his personal and professional life by giving a public apology.   Refusing to divulge any details about This disgraced golfer alleged affairs, his made it clear that questions regarding his affairs are of matters between his and his wife.  Its matter between Elin and me, between a husband and a wife.   his said.  (Cheat sheet )
Apologizing repeatedly to his family and friends he said,"   I convinced myself that normal rules did not apply.   I thought only about myself. . .   I was wrong. "   Taking tthe blame for the blame for his actions actions blame for blame actions, he urged the media, Please leave me and wife alone, They didnt do these things, I did.  I must shield my family from spotlight, I owe this to those closest to me.  the blame for his actions said looking meaningfully at his wife, who was sitting in the audience.   Woods, 34, said that Woods , 34 , may return to golf tWoods , 34 , year but has not set a date for his comeback.   In a bid to rebuild bid reputation Tiger thanked the PGA tour, players, sponsors for sponsors patience and understanding.   Tiger also said sorry to Tiger fans and kids who admired his.   I have let down my fans.   his added.   The golf star is trying hard to get The golf star life back on track and save his wrecked marriage.  his attended a sex rehab following the scandal and will continue with the treatment.  Its hard to admit that I need help but I do.   his confessed.  an end of his professional life's believed that these unfortunate events of his personal life do not imply an end of his professional life as a golfer.  I want to live a life of integrity.   his said.   After the self imposed hiding from the media, Woods found enough time to ponder over Woods action My failure has made me look at myself the way I never wanted to look at myself before.  
Learning a lesson from his mistake the golfer exclaimed that Its not what you achieve that matters but what you overcome.    I don't rule out that Tiger Woods will be this year,"   About 40 people were in the room, including room mother.  he hugged Woods when he finished speaking.  I am deeply sorry for my irresponsible and selfish behaviour, Woods said.   I had affairs.   Emerging from a nearly three-month break from the game and public life after admitting to cheating on cheating wife, the 34-year-old said:"   I just dont know when that day will be.   " room wife, Elin, was not present in the room.  he admitted he had a" long way to go" in repairing he personal life.   People probably don't realize Woods, but I was raised a Buddhist and actively practice my faith from childhood. . .  