FLORIDA: Despair and hope followed one another in quick succession at a cosy clubhouse room in TPC Sawgrass, home of the US PGA tour, on Friday as a contrite Tiger Woods apologized for his "selfish" behaviour and at the same time, showed signs of moving on.
"I do plan to return to golf one day, I just don't know when that day will be. I don't rule out that it will be this year," Woods said to the gathering of 40-odd people, including his mother.

Emerging from a nearly three-month break from the game and public life after admitting to cheating on his wife, the 34-year-old said: "I was unfaithful. I had affairs. I cheated. What I did was not acceptable." His wife, Elin, was not present in the room. He admitted he had a "long way to go" in repairing his personal life.

Woods said that 45 days of in-patient therapy - to which he will return on Saturday - had helped him realize that his life needed a spiritual element, one drawn from his Buddhist upbringing. "People probably don't realize it, but I was raised a Buddhist and actively practice my faith from childhood... Buddhism teaches that a craving for things outside ourselves causes an unhappy and pointless search for security. Obviously I lost track of what I was taught.

"In therapy, I've learned the points of looking at my spiritual life and keeping in balance with my professional life. I need to regain my balance and be centred so I can save the things that are most important to me, my marriage and my children," he said.

Woods talked for more than 13 minutes from the clubhouse, with just one video camera in the room, even as the media milled outside. He hugged his mother, Kultida, who was in the front row, when he finished speaking. "I said 'I'm so proud of you. Never think you stand alone. Mom will always be there for you and I love you,"' Kultida later said.

Admitting he felt he "deserved to enjoy the temptations" that came with his fabulous success, Woods said he was solely responsible for his actions. "I am deeply sorry for my irresponsible and selfish behavior," Woods said.

Woods said he was in treatment for 45 days and would return for more therapy, adding he has more work to do to resolve his personal problems. Woods had not talked in public since his traffic accident on November 27 triggered shocking revelations about Woods' serial infidelity.

Friday's event was tightly controlled, with only a few journalists allowed to watch Woods live. The televised confession became a major television event with networks breaking in to show it.

Woods is one of the most recognized athletes in the world. Television ratings double when he is in contention, which has happened a lot on his way to winning 71 times on the US PGA Tour and 14 majors, four short of the record held by Jack Nicklaus.

In Friday's statement, the golf legend also made special mention of the speculation surrounding a bizarre car accident in November outside woods' Florida home in the middle of the night. "Elin never hit me that night, or any other night. There has never been an episode of domestic violence (in our family)..." Woods said.

Woods did not take questions after his statement and gave no account of what actually happened to cause the accident when he crashed his car outside his home. It was that accident that snowballed into tawdry revelations about his personal life. Numerous women claimed to have had affairs with Woods in the days that followed. The revelations hit Woods's sponsors hard, with Accenture and AT&T ending their endorsement contracts with him while the sordid saga became the stuff of jokes worldwide. 