Golfer Tiger Woods, who was in hiding since the expose of his alleged infidelities, has finally broken his silence on the whole affair by admitting, “I was unfaithful, I had affairs, I cheated.”

After three months of silence, Tiger Woods has given a well crafted public apology for his lies and illicit affairs to a small group of friends, colleagues and close associates at the TPC Sawgrass clubhouse in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida in a televised speech. (Watch Video)

He has accepted that his mistake, by saying “I am the only one to blame, I convinced myself I felt that I had worked hard, I deserve to enjoy all the temptation around me; I was entitled.”

The disgraced golfer has put to rest speculations about his personal and professional life by giving a public apology. Refusing to divulge any details about his alleged affairs, he made it clear that questions regarding his affairs are of matters between him and his wife.  “It’s matter between Elin and me, between a husband and a wife.” he said. (Cheat sheet )

Apologizing repeatedly to his family and friends he said, "I convinced myself that normal rules did not apply. I thought only about myself... I was wrong."

Taking the blame for his actions, he urged the media, “Please leave me and wife alone, “They didn’t do these things, I did.”

“I must shield my family from spotlight, I owe this to those closest to me.” He said looking meaningfully at his wife, who was sitting in the audience.

Woods, 34, said that he may return to golf this year but has not set a date for his comeback.  In a bid to rebuild his reputation Tiger thanked the PGA tour, players, sponsors for their patience and understanding. He also said sorry to his fans and kids who admired him. I have let down my fans.” he added.

The golf star is trying hard to get his life back on track and save his wrecked marriage. He attended a sex rehab following the scandal and will continue with the treatment. “It’s hard to admit that I need help but I do.” He confessed.

It's believed that these unfortunate events of his personal life do not imply an end of his professional life as a golfer. “I want to live a life of integrity.” He said.

After the self imposed hiding from the media, Woods found enough time to ponder over his action “My failure has made me look at myself the way I never wanted to look at myself before. “

Learning a lesson from his mistake the golfer exclaimed that “It’s not what you achieve that matters but what you overcome.”  